---
title: "EAGLE-like simulation models do not solve the entropy core problem in groups and clusters of galaxies"
date: "2022-10-18"
type: article
tags:
  - "arxiv"
  - ""
categories:
  - cluster simulation
  - 2022(year)
  - 10(month)
draft: false
---

> Seyoung Jeon, 

Recent high-resolution cosmological hydrodynamic simulations run with a variety of codes systematically predict large amounts of entropy in the intra-cluster medium at low redshift, leading to flat entropy profiles and a suppressed cool-core population. This prediction is at odds with X-ray observations of groups and clusters. We use a new implementation of the EAGLE galaxy formation model to investigate the sensitivity of the central entropy and the shape of the profiles to changes in the sub-grid model applied to a suite of zoom-in cosmological simulations of a group of mass M500=8.8×1012 M⊙ and a cluster of mass 2.9×1014 M⊙. Using our reference model, calibrated to match the stellar mass function of field galaxies, we confirm that our simulated groups and clusters contain hot gas with too high entropy in their cores. Additional simulations run without artificial conduction, metal cooling or AGN feedback produce lower entropy levels but still fail to reproduce observed profiles. Conversely, the two objects run without supernova feedback show a significant entropy increase which can be attributed to excessive cooling and star formation. Varying the AGN heating temperature does not greatly affect the profile shape, but only the overall normalisation. Finally, we compared runs with four AGN heating schemes and obtained similar profiles, with the exception of bipolar AGN heating, which produces a higher and more uniform entropy distribution. Our study leaves open the question of whether the entropy core problem in simulations, and particularly the lack of power-law cool-core profiles, arise from incorrect physical assumptions, missing physical processes, or insufficient numerical resolution. 

---
[arxiv link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05285)    
[pdf link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.05285)