---
title: "A model for the infrared-radio correlation of main-sequence galaxies at GHz frequencies and its dependence on redshift and stellar mass"
date: "2022-10-14"
type: article
tags:
  - "arxiv"
  
categories:
  - galactic disk
  - 2022(year)
  - 10(month)
draft: false
---
> First author: J. Schober

 The infrared-radio correlation (IRRC) of star-forming galaxies can be used to
estimate their star formation rate (SFR) based on the radio continuum
luminosity at MHz-GHz frequencies. For application in future deep radio
surveys, it is crucial to know whether the IRRC persists at high redshift z.
Delvecchio et al. (2021) observed that the 1.4 GHz IRRC correlation of
star-forming galaxies is nearly z-invariant up to z~4, but depends strongly on
the stellar mass M_star. This should be taken into account for SFR calibrations
based on radio luminosity. To understand the physical cause of the
M_star-dependence of the IRRC and its properties at higher z, we construct a
phenomenological model for galactic radio emission involving magnetic fields
generated by a small-scale dynamo, a steady-state cosmic ray population, as
well as observed scaling relations that reduce the number of free parameters.
The best agreement between the model and the characteristics of the IRRC
observed by Delvecchio et al. (2021) is found when the efficiency of the
SN-driven turbulence is 5% and when saturation of the small-scale dynamo occurs
once 0.5% of the kinetic energy is converted into magnetic energy. Generally,
we find that the observed mass dependence of the IRRC appears as long as
synchrotron emission dominates the galactic radio flux. When extrapolating the
reference model to higher redshift, the free-free emission and absorption
strongly affect the radio spectrum, which ultimately leads to an inversion of
the M_star dependence of the IRRC at z>5. This could be tested with future deep
radio observations, which will also probe the dependence of IR/radio flux
ratios on galaxy orientation that is predicted by our model for high-z systems.

---
[arxiv link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.07919v1)

[pdf link](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.07919v1)