---
title: "Perturbation theory with dispersion and higher cumulants: framework and linear theory"
date: "2022-10-14"
type: article
tags:
  - "arxiv"
  
categories:
  - blackhole physics
  - 2022(year)
  - 10(month)
draft: false
---
> First author: Mathias Garny

 The standard perturbation theory (SPT) approach to gravitational clustering
is based on a fluid approximation of the underlying Vlasov-Poisson dynamics,
taking only the zeroth and first cumulant of the phase-space distribution
function into account (density and velocity fields). This assumption breaks
down when dark matter particle orbits cross and leads to well-known problems,
e.g. an anomalously large backreaction of small-scale modes onto larger scales
that compromises predictivity. We extend SPT by incorporating second and higher
cumulants generated by orbit crossing. For collisionless matter, their
equations of motion are completely fixed by the Vlasov-Poisson system, and thus
we refer to this approach as Vlasov Perturbation Theory (VPT). Even cumulants
develop a background value, and they enter the hierarchy of coupled equations
for the fluctuations. The background values are in turn sourced by power
spectra of the fluctuations. The latter can be brought into a form that is
formally analogous to SPT, but with an extended set of variables and linear as
well as non-linear terms, that we derive explicitly. In this paper, we focus on
linear solutions, which are far richer than in SPT, showing that modes that
cross the dispersion scale set by the second cumulant are highly suppressed. We
derive stability conditions on the background values of even cumulants from the
requirement that exponential instabilities be absent. We also compute the
expected magnitude of averaged higher cumulants for various halo models and
show that they satisfy the stability conditions. Finally, we derive
self-consistent solutions of perturbations and background values for a scaling
universe and study the convergence of the cumulant expansion. The VPT framework
provides a conceptually straightforward and deterministic extension of SPT that
accounts for the decoupling of small-scale modes.

---
[arxiv link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.08088v1)

[pdf link](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.08088v1)