---
title: "SDSS-IV MaStar: Stellar Parameter Determination with Continuum-Supplemented Full-Spectrum Fitting"
date: "2022-10-24"
type: article
tags:
  - "arxiv"
  - "most recent update (Sat Oct 29 2022)"
categories:
  - dwarf galaxy
  - 2022(year)
  - 10(month)
draft: false
---

> First author: Daniel Lazarz

 We present a stellar parameter catalog built to accompany the MaStar Stellar
Library, which is a comprehensive collection of empirical, medium-resolution
stellar spectra. We constructed this parameter catalog by using a
multicomponent $\chi^{2}$ fitting approach to match MaStar spectra to models
generated by interpolating the ATLAS9-based BOSZ model spectra. The total
$\chi^{2}$ for a given model is defined as the sum of components constructed to
characterize narrow-band features of observed spectra (e.g., absorption lines)
and the broadband continuum shape separately. Extinction and systematics due to
flux calibration were taken into account in the fitting. The $\chi^{2}$
distribution for a given region of model space was sampled using a Markov Chain
Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm, the data from which were then used to extract
atmospheric parameter estimates ($T_{eff}$, log g, [Fe/H], and [$\alpha$/Fe]),
their corresponding uncertainties, and direct extinction measurements. Two
methods were used to extract parameters and uncertainties: one that accepts the
MCMC's prescribed minimum-$\chi^{2}$ result, and one that uses Bayesian
inference to compute a likelihood-weighted mean from the $\chi^{2}$
distribution sampled by the MCMC. Results were evaluated for internal
consistency using repeat observations where available and by comparing them
with external data sets (e.g., APOGEE-2 and Gaia DR2). Our spectral-fitting
exercise reveals possible deficiencies in current theoretical model spectra,
illustrating the potential power of MaStar spectra for helping to improve the
models. This paper represents an update to the parameters that were originally
presented with SDSS-IV DR17. The MaStar parameter catalog containing our
BestFit results is available on the SDSS-IV DR17 website as part of version 2
of the MaStar stellar parameter value-added catalog.

---
[arxiv link](http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13511v1)

[pdf link](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.13511v1)